Israel is increasing the pressure on the
battlefield as it looks for a settlement
with the armed group Hezbollah that
would allow residents to return to towns
and villages in the north of the
country the defense minister yav Galant
is calling for a safe Zone on lebanon's
side of the border and international
efforts are reportedly looking into the
possible deployment of French troops and
all of them are trying to find
diplomatic solution that includes
International force not belongs to the
UN because Israel is doesn't believe
anymore with the UN with UniFi or UN
forces but International force with the
ability to hold
back it's a similar proposal to the one
put forward by Israel during its last
war with Hezbollah in
2006 but it wasn't able to achieve its
goal the demilitarization of the group
militar
or
diplomatically instead an enlarged un
force was deployed but with no mandate
to forcibly create a border zone free of
weapons and Fighters outside State
Control tar Mitri was lebanon's foreign
minister at the time 7 every morning you
have some Israeli
official uh threatening to either invade
destroy uh Implement resolution 1701 by4
or get it under chapter 7 I mean and I
think most of that is
unrealistic but in the meantime there
are
other diplomatic semi- diplomatic you
initiatives you might want to call them
during his last visit to Lebanon us
mediator Amos hin raised the issue of
land border delanation as a way to end
the conflict but hasbalah says it won't
negotiate as long as Israel's aggression
in Gaza continues it also reiter itated
a red
line we will not disarm because our
weapons allow us to live independently
and face threats and for us there are
issues that can be discussed but there
are issues that are not up for
discussion Hezbollah has always said it
had reservations on UN resolution 1701
and never committed to disarm when it
was adopted lebanon's government was
controlled by the group's opponents what
hasbalah says it did agree to was for
its Fighters and arms not to be visible
along the border Israel is threatening
to escalate but a full-blown War won't
guarantee Hezbollah will stay away from
the border zenah aljaz
Beirut make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer